hi my name is dr. Jeff resale on behalf
of equal Animal Hospital I'd like to
welcome you and today I will be talking
about expressing aina plans so to start
off with dogs have these anal glands for
territory marking and also to ward off
praise and and then this area to get
fairly dirty and then has it does have a
tendency to accumulate dirt and dirt and
other dusts and also bacteria and
whatnot and then this area this needs to
be cleaned every now and then in terms
of how many days the hoff you do this is
it's anywhere between one to two weeks
and a lot of times also to show these
signs that their anal glands are fooled
by kind of scooting they are there bud
and dragging their butt everywhere and
that's a certainly an indication for you
to clean the needles tact so just to
start off and with probably this is
where the anal sacs lie
this is anus and the anal sacs lie
proximal to it at the four o'clock and
the eight o'clock position and and in
order to clean the anal sac one thing
you want to do is you want to kind of
get a little below the anal sac itself
and the kind of squeeze on the sac
itself and then kind of push up and
that's how you can express it and to
demonstrate I'm gonna have our gall de
here and our assistance oils showing you
how to do this so yeah it's not the
cleanest area in the world so I do
recommend you putting on some type of
gloves if you don't have gloves like
this you can certainly use you know any
type of plastic gloves or whatnot and
you want to get a paper towel like this
and if you could just preciate the anus
here and the anal glands like right at
the four o'clock at the eight o'clock
Junction and if you're displeased I'm in
a little like this you can actually get
some see and you definitely have some
here okay
and I am going to go ahead and squeeze
the rest of it out and and it is not the
most pleasant smelling material in the
world and our dog bebe hasn't been
expressed in a while so he definitely
has a very very dark and she date and
this isn't as common a lot of times that
the color of it is a little lighter and
one that men and after after you're done
through after expecting that anal glands
anal glands the area of this did to be a
bit water it's and what you can do is
you can use products like this to kind
of clean off the area and also eliminate
some of the order so that's it thank you